# Prediction of Customer Satisfaction for Invistico Airlines
Hanni Chen, Joy Chow, Xuefei Qiao, Guanghui Shen

## Abstract
As COVID-19 impacts the airline industry significantly, commercial airlines are suffering from losses in revenues. Customer satisfaction has become a more critical component in business recovery. This study investigates the key factors affecting customer satisfaction for Invistico Airlines by looking into customer attributes and individual ratings on boarding, in-flight, and post-flight services. It provides insights into the features that should be emphasized to improve customer experiences.

Gower+PAM and MCA+K-means methods are applied for clustering purpose in the EDA process to gain insights into customers’ overall demographics and ratings of different flight services. Classification trees and logistic regression models are then built to predict customer satisfaction status. On account of accuracy and time elapsed as criteria, the boosted tree and bagged tree are selected as our best models. Entertainment and seat comfort are identified by tree related models as important services that Invistico Airlines can improve to gain a competitive edge among peers and get through difficult times when budgets are tight.

*Keywords: Customer satisfaction, business, airlines, logistic regression, classification tree, bagging, random forest, boosting*

## Introduction
The development of the airline industry has changed the global economy significantly. It facilitates tourism and communications between countries economically and culturally, which help generate economic growth. The airline industry promotes improving people's living standards; therefore, besides being a means of transportation, the airline industry must also focus on customer experience. Upon the breakout of COVID-19, the airline industry has faced multiple challenges such as inflationary pressures, preventing and controlling the virus's spread while maintaining profitability. But customer satisfaction, as always been one of the airline industry's top concerns, has become more critical than ever, considering that lower customer satisfaction leads to fewer passengers and decreases in revenue. Gordin's (2013) research stated that customer dissatisfaction resulted in decades of money-losing airline operations. This also proves how vital customer satisfaction is for the recovery of air travel. According to Effler's study, attentive flight crews, flexible fares, and charges during pandemic drive record-high customer satisfaction with North American airlines. By analyzing a specific airline company, Invistico Airlines, we hope to get some valuable insights into the entire airline industry from the results.

After briefly introducing the context, we will describe our initial dataset in the next section. Then, we will perform explanatory data analysis such as multiple correspondence
analysis (MCA) for dimensionality reduction purposes and Gower’s distance in Section 3. We will then list the methods used and explain the theory behind each of them in the methodology section (Section 4). Data cleaning and partitioning, demonstration of the built models, and relevant explanations are in Section 5. Finally, we will elaborate on our findings and the direction of future research.

## Dataset
The raw dataset was obtained from Kaggle and originally used for a business competition hosted by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee in 2020. It consists of over 120K observations and 23 columns that detail Invistico Airlines' customer information and their feedback on different flight services. The actual name of the airline organization is not revealed due to confidential purposes. Since the large size of the dataset may cause technical issues to our data analysis, we then randomly selected 5,000 rows from the dataset as our final sample.

Each row refers to a passenger's overall satisfaction level with the airline, along with the passenger’s personal information. Specific to each customer, the dataset not only records information on flight distance, departure delay, and arrival delay, but it also employs a five-level Likert scale to collect the customer’s ratings of a variety of airline services, from boarding to in- flight to post-flight. All these columns are ordinal. A “1” in the Likert scale represents “Least Satisfied” on a specific service, and a “5” means “Most Satisfied”. Several ratings contain entries of 0, which stand for “not applicable” according to Kaggle description. There are also 393 missing values in the column “arrival delay in minutes”.

Please click [here](https://github.com/xqiao123/Time_Series_Analysis_on_Climate_Change/blob/main/Report.pdf) to view the complete report.
